Ingredients
1 1/2 cups whole or 2% milk
2 large eggs
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 pinch kosher salt
1 tablespoon granulated sugar (optional)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract (optional)
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon neutral oil, such as vegetable or canola

Instructions
Place 1 1/2 cups whole or 2% milk, 2 large eggs, 1 cup all-purpose flour, 1 pinch kosher salt, 1 tablespoon granulated sugar, and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, if using, in a blender. Blend until smooth, scraping down the sides of the blender as needed, about 30 seconds total.
Place 2 tablespoons unsalted butter in a microwave-safe small bowl and microwave in 20-second bursts until almost completely melted, 40 to 50 seconds total. (Alternatively, melt on the stovetop.) Add to the blender and blend until incorporated, about 5 seconds. (Alternatively, whisk all the ingredients together in a large bowl until smooth and combined.)
Cover and let the batter sit for at least 10 minutes or up to 30 minutes at room temperature, or refrigerate for up to 1 day.
Place 1 tablespoon neutral oil on a small dish. When ready to cook, dip a paper towel in the oil and use it to lightly coat the bottom and sides of a 10-inch nonstick pan. Heat the pan over medium-low heat until hot, 1 to 3 minutes. Pour in 1/4 cup of batter, and immediately lift the pan and tilt and swirl it to spread the batter into a thin and even layer covering the entire bottom of the pan. Cook undisturbed until the crêpe batter appears dry and the edges brown slightly and start to pull away from the pan, 1 to 1 1/2 minutes.
Use a flexible spatula to gently lift one side of the crêpe, then gently use your fingers to carefully flip the crêpe over. Cook briefly on the second side, just until it browns slightly and moves freely in the pan, about 30 seconds more. Slide the crêpe onto a plate and cover with aluminum foil. (Note: The first few crêpes might not be perfect as you practice swirling the batter and adjust the heat or cooking time.)
Repeat making crêpes with the remaining batter, coating the pan with more oil only if the crêpes fail to pull away from the pan easily. Stack the crêpes on top of each other.
For sweet crêpes, serve with softened butter, granulated or powdered sugar, Nutella, and/or sliced strawberries. For savory crêpes, serve with cheese, fresh herbs, or sliced ham.
